DETAILED PROCEDURE ANALYSIS
The protocol is divided into two parts, as the InsectMotion offers 2 different analyses: (A) Graphical analysis (GA), and (B) Pixel activity analysis (PAA). One video can be analyzed with both, GA and PAA, as they are together complementary and can create more detailed final results. In both protocols it is recommended to follow the steps in their designated order for the optimal results.

A. Graphical analysis (GA)
Before video selection, it is important to set up the "threshold_factor" and "window_size" (see line 20 in the script). The first parameter (values 0-1) controls which peaks are counted. Threshold = mean + "threshold_factor" * std. Lower "threshold_factor means that more peaks will be included, and vice versa. The other parameter "window_size" controls whether peaks exist or not. It is used for temporal smoothing of the signal - how many consecutive frames you group together for one measurement. Ex.: If recording at 30 fps and setting the "window_size" to 10, one data point represents ~0.33 seconds of activity.The GA begins by clicking on the button: “Graphical Analysis”. The final outcome of the GA includes (i) a graph showing the amplitude of contractions over time (frames) in the selected region of interest (ROI); (ii) text files containing data of each ROI featured in the graph; (iii) text file "summary_metrics" containing amplitude and frequency values for each ROI; (iv) and PNG images representing each analyzed segments of the video file. 

1. Number of ROIs: In the first step, you have to type the number of Regions of Interest (ROI), between 1 and 10 (mostly due to maintain the whole analysis process smooth). Each ROI will undergo analysis separately. More than 10 ROI cannot be analyzed at the same time. 

2. Select Video and ROI: In this step navigate InsectMotion to the folder and select (double-click) a video file. InsectMotion supports multiple file types: .mp4, .avi, .mov. Continue in this step by selecting (left-click) the ROI. Application will automatically stop the selecting process and the video file will be closed once the number of selected ROI corresponds the number established in the previous step. 
* Note: Please, DO NOT close the video file during selection process. If you intend to change selected ROI, let the app close it automatically (explained above) and repeat this step directly in the app. The graph shows results from any movement captured on the video. Try to select all ROI from segments of the video, where movements are clear, muscle contractions are repetitive and/or the background bias is the lowest.

3. Frame Parameters (dimensions): To enhance the efficiency of the analysis, and to target specifically contracting or moving segments of a video file, squares are created around each ROI. The frame size is customizable, with the default dimensions set as follows (in pixels): "-x" = 50, "+x" = 50, "+y" = 50, "-y" = 50. Selecting alternative dimensions is confirmed by clicking the button: "Update Frame Parameters".
* Note: It is essential to emphasize that for optimal muscle contraction analysis, selecting a frame size that closely surrounds the focused area (minimizing background interference) is crucial.

4. Set Output Folder: In this step, navigate to the output folder, where all the results (graph, text files, and PNG images) will be saved.
* Note: Files from one analysis will be named corresponding to each ROI separately. Please remind that output files from multiple analyses will always have the same name, so it is necessary to save the data to different folders. 

5. Analyze: The graph is automatically generated by analyzing pixel activity within the selected ROI and specified frame dimensions from the previous steps. This graph incorporates data for all ROI, with the video file duration set to a predetermined 10 minute length (maximum). Data for each ROI in the graph are normalized based on the pixel intensity of the first frame, ensuring that the initial x value for every ROI is always 0. The system automatically saves all data in the designated Output Folder. PNG images are derived from the initial video frame to prevent blurriness. The whole analysis took around 30 seconds per 1 minute long video (recorded at 60 fps) and 1 roi selected.
* Note: PNG images are created to facilitate the video analysis during the setup of frame dimensions in preceding steps. Once the analysis is completed, you can revise the frame dimensions around selected ROIs and repeat the analysis, if needed.

6. Show Output Folder: The Output Folder can be easily find by clicking on the button "Show Output Folder".

7. Back: This allows the user to return on the main menu.

                        ******************************

B. Pixel Activity Analysis (PAA) - modified version for InsectMotion_ext
The PAA starts by clicking on the button: “Pixel Activity Analysis”. As a result, InsectMotion provides (i) a PNG image of active and inactive pixels from the video; (ii) a text file containing data values for 1 selected ROI: x, y coordinates; size of the ROI; area of the ROI; percentage of active pixels (including actual threshold value); and biggest clusters of active neighboring pixels. It calculates the activity of each pixel separately, when it met the preset settings, active pixels will be shown as red, while the background is derived from the first video frame. 

1. Choose Video: The first step in the PAA is similar to the GA, navigating to the folder and selecting a video file (again, multiple video file types are supported). Selecting of ROI is facilitated by the coordinates (shown in up-left corner), and it is necessary to confirm the ROI by "enter". The PNG and text file will be generated for the whole video automatically.

2. Select Output Folder: In this step, navigate to the output folder, where the PNG image will be saved.
* Note that the output PNG will be named “active_pixels” in every analysis. Therefore multiple analyses have to be saved in different folders, or renamed after analysis manually.

3. Update Settings: In this step you can customize your video analysis by selecting Threshold percentage (t%) and Frame skip (FS) parameters. t% refers to the activity of pixels per time and is preset to 80. When selecting t% to 80, it means that every pixel that is active for at least 80% of the duration of the video recording will be shown as white, otherwise as black. This feature allows you to reduce the background bias to minimum by setting higher t%. Other parameter – FS refers to the number of frames that will be analyzed. Normally the FS is preset to 0; it means every single video frame will be analyzed. However, when recording at 60 fps (optional) we recommend to set the FS at least to 5, to reduce the analysis time without losing a quality of the final result. Confirm selected parameters by clicking on the button: “Update Settings”.
* Please be aware, when comparing multiple videos (ex. control and test group), it is highly recommended to use the same parameters (t%, FS) in every analysis to obtain the most precise results.

4. Analyze: Clicking on this button will start the analysis process and the final data – black and white PNG image will be saved in the selected folder. 
* Note: Usually, when analyzing 1 minute long video file, recorded at 30 fps with FS set to 5, the whole process took around 35-40 seconds.

5. Show Output Folder: The Output Folder can be easily find by clicking on the button "Show Output Folder".

6. Back: This allows the user to return on the main menu.

